Tưởng tượng thế giới xung quanh ta là một quả cầu màu trắng vô hình. Well, không hoàn toàn vô hình, mà vẫn hữu hình in the sense that you could fill it up completely, covering every inch of the surface. Phân tích chính là tập hợp những chấm đen rời rạc, when viewed from a distance, sẽ tạo ra các hình khối với những cấu trúc nhất định. But try as you may, there's still something amiss. Is the space not supposed to be filled up, wholly? When you zoom in two particular points, the more clearly you can see them, the more distance they have between themselves. Let's say you're at your disposal to move one point closer to the other, but the distance would show up, over and over again, the instant you zoom them in.

Có những câu hỏi, dù có thêm bao nhiêu dữ liệu, phân tích kỹ lưỡng tới đâu, cũng không thể có những câu trả lời xác đáng. 

The line between "needing someone in your life" and "can't live your life without them" is a thin one. The latter is an extreme. The one between "technically you *don't* need anyone in your life, vì chẳng ai sống thiếu ai mà chết được" và "cần người đó trong cuộc sống của mình" is another. The former is the other extreme. How can you tell the difference without falling into either extreme? Có người từng nói, tôi là người luôn đặt một chân bên ngoài, dù ở trong bất kỳ mối quan hệ nào. Họ hỏi tôi đã từng yêu ai bao giờ chưa. Đối với họ, to live, is to need the other person. You're at stake, you don't want to lose them. I struggled to understand that. My line of thinking was that, since anything could happen whenever, we would be able to live on, no matter what, eventually. Consequently, I was not afraid of the aftermath of loss, intellectually.

*Intellectually*, because we humans, when looking at us from the most reductionistic point of view possible, are bossed around by two opposing forces: pleasure and pain. Emotionally, have I *ever* tried to not avoid pain? 

Individualism is not morally superior or evolved compared to collectivism. They are just different ways of being and relating. However, trong xã hội hiện đại hoá, toàn cầu hoà, văn hoá bị đồng hoá, regressing to the mean, sự tranh chấp giữa những giá trị cũ và mới, ta không thể không tự hỏi bản thân: "Làm thế nào để sống thật, sống đúng với bản thân, mà vẫn có thể kết nối với thế giới rộng lớn, bao la ngoài kia, still being part of a greater good." I do not have an answer to this yet.

The act of jotting down notes, in this repo, has been my desperate attempt to blot out the spherical surface in front me. Those lonely dots. Each of them, an isolated island of their own accord.

[「ただ君が泣くなら僕も泣くから」](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jz8O2t2r8Gs&t=106s) was what broke the spell. I still don't know what the answers to those questions are. Don't know [how I'm going to live from tomorrow](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=goU1Ei8I8uk&t=255s), either. But at least, at least, the points surrounding me are no longer desolate. They're now part of coherent, continuous pieces of portraits. Of life.